describe v1 routing cluster upgrade to 5.10 procedure (#2963)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/deploy/rolling-upgrades.md

:::

## Upgrades to EMQX 5.10 or Later

EMQX 5.10.0 no longer supports legacy _v1_ routing storage schema. Only _v2_ storage schema is supported, which became the default in EMQX 5.4.0. Clusters running older EMQX versions—or those went through incremental rolling upgrades from earlier releases—may still use the _v1_ storage schema. In such cases, upgrading to EMQX 5.10.0+ requires a full cluster restart; rolling upgrades are not supported.

To check the current routing storage schema, run:
```
$ emqx eval 'emqx_router:get_schema_vsn()'
```

If the output is `v2`, regular rolling upgrade is possible.

If the output is `v1`, rolling upgrade is not possible. Follow these steps:
1. Upgrade all nodes to 5.10.0 or newer.
2. Remove `broker.routing.storage_schema` option from applicable configuration files, if present.

> 3. Stop **all** cluster nodes, then restart them one by one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Stop **all** cluster nodes.
4. Start core nodes in the reversed order of the stop.
5. Start replicant nodes (if any) in any order.
```
